well what do you do do you work or go to
school i do i work um in retail
and i um i'm gonna be getting my
psychology degree in the fall i'm gonna
be going back for that
how old are you i'm 18. oh my goodness
newly 18. newly 18. how new about a week
ago
i turned 18 a week i cannot believe it
aren't we lucky so how did you find us
through pornhub i've seen some of your
guys's videos
what are we here to shoot today my very
first adult video
your very first porn video yes this is
maybe
the most puzzling part of the equation
and it may not be the most
salacious it may not be the most
entertaining it may not be
immediately obvious to you why this is
worth thinking about seriously
do you really imagine that sex work
is good for the sex worker one
simplistic position is to argue that
it's good
for anyone and everyone who wants to do
it the diametric opposite
is to say it's not good for anyone
should be completely banned
it's not good for him at all most of us
certainly the vast majority of people
who are willing to click on this video
and ponder the problem philosophically
fall into category number three
the belief or the assumption that it's
good for some people
but not others that's actually the most
difficult
position to sustain that's the most
difficult position to justify
and it entails the most troubling
implications
because you are consciously or
unconsciously dividing humanity into two
classes of people
those for whom this is acceptable and
those for whom this is
not
[Music]
i feel very unhappy and unfulfilled
sometimes
even though i am making good amount of
money because i know this is not
something i want to do
[Music]
this is kind of gross but guys you've
been around they probably want to see
you naked
and not all of them but most of them
will pay that extra money without
telling you
and they're gonna see i can't even
imagine how many guys that i went to
high school with
is up to my only fans but you know that
is
that's just how it is and i can live
with that but can you
this only fans thing people don't want
to see pornography
they want to see your pornography this
is a very
mentally stressing industry because as
much as we want to say our body our
choice society are still going to judge
us upon it that's why a lot of girls
don't want to show their face because
they don't want
society people around them to judge them
it's really hard to talk about it
because i'm making a really good amount
of money
for someone my age and not even doing
that much
like i don't feel like i've sold my soul
yet do you believe army recruitment
is good for the young soldier who is
recruited wouldn't it be simple to live
your life with a belief that sure
joining the army is
good for anyone and everyone there's
nothing wrong with
teams of army recruiters signing up 18
year olds
doing army recruitment in high schools
young people making this decision that's
going to change their life
forever on the basis of propaganda on
the basis of what may be
intentionally misleading recruitment
information
provided by the recruiters and on the
basis probably of fantasies or dreams
they have of what
being in the army is like that they may
have had since childhood
or that they may have gotten from
watching movies and tv shows
right it wouldn't your life be simple if
you could believe in position one or
position two here
this is good for anyone and everyone
army recruiter joined the army
it's good for all teenagers to sign up
or maybe you're some kind of principled
anti-military pacifist who thinks this
isn't good for anybody this should be
completely abolished they should be
completely illegal but position three is
the one that's really difficult
to justify yourself and it has the most
troubling
implications it's good for some people
and not others if we really believed
that sex work
were an unalloyed good then we would
have no
trouble at all with the sex industry
recruiting students in high schools
setting up a desk just like this army
recruiter here and saying sign up now to
star in pornographic films
sign up now to be a stripper or even a
prostitute there's an article here from
an anti-pornography website
complaining about sex industry groups
sitting up precisely this kind of stand
at schools trying to recruit girls
who've just turned 18
to become strippers porn stars so and so
forth and i thought it was interesting
that even though this
website is anti-pornography and anti-sex
work
they chose quite a moderate ethical
parallel here they compared this to
the credit card industry setting up
booths in high schools
and offering teenagers credit cards when
teenagers
couldn't possibly cope with couldn't
possibly imagine the long-term
implications of running a credit card
debt
at what age can you really understand
the long-term implications
of signing up to join the military
at what age can you really understand
the long-term implications
of signing up to become a porn star even
if that
is the currently socially acceptable
form instagram modeling
only fans modeling the various shades of
gray
that the internet has afforded to sex
working
as an industry and i want to just
briefly
press forward to a much more shocking
much more serious and much more
politically important question
do you think cocaine and heroin should
be legalized
i debated this at great length with a
libertarian who took the positions quite
quite popular here on the internet
for people to argue in terms of just our
abstract reasoning on the chalkboard
that society would better place
if you allowed anyone and everyone to
use cocaine and heroin if they
chose to but i pressed on point three
here
what do you really believe you believe
there are two classes of humanity
one class of humanity that's so
contemptible that it doesn't matter
if they use cocaine and heroin and one
class of humanity
that absolutely must remain sober
do you believe that a police officer
should be allowed to use
cocaine first thing in the morning
before he goes out on the job
do you believe that an airplane pilot
should be allowed to shoot up heroin
before after or during
work do you believe that a schoolteacher
should be able to do these drugs on the
weekend do you believe that a parent who
is raising children
should be allowed to do these drugs in
their own home in front of their kids
you know at the dinner table
or actually you don't believe any of
these things when you say that cocaine
and heroin should be legalized
what you really mean implicitly what you
really believe what you're refusing to
examine
is the assumption that there are some
people
for whom this is okay and for those
people for that separate class of
humanity and society
this doesn't have negative consequences
that we should worry about and
implicitly
when we take the position that sex work
is good for the sex worker
that only fans isn't a problem really
implicitly
position three entails that there are
some people
for whom this is okay and we don't want
to admit to ourselves that we're
dividing humanity into two classes
that for you it doesn't matter oh but
for a young woman who wants to become a
police officer but for a young woman who
wants to become
a surgeon a politician a psychiatrist
for a young woman maybe even who just
wants to later be a parent
and raise a family that actually you are
creating a subclass of humanity
in your mind and it's not that you
believe those people won't
suffer the negative consequences of sex
work it's not that you believe the
soldier who signs up at 18 won't suffer
the consequence of joining the army
or that the drug addict won't suffer the
consequences of drug addiction it's that
you think
there's one class of humanity for whom
those negative consequences
don't matter i do i work in retail
and i am going to be getting my
psychology degree in the fall i'm gonna
be going back for that
what i'm trying to say again again is no
each of us in our way
has the responsibilities of a police
officer of a pilot
and of a parent we all share in being
the same class of human beings with the
same responsibilities
and the same potentials above all
politically
sometimes in ethics politics and
philosophy
we have to deal with a completely
irrelevant
consideration that enough people believe
to be relevant
that it becomes important it becomes
important in talking about the future of
our culture
and frankly the future of legislation
that may govern this part of our culture
the irrelevant but important factor i
want to talk about now
is privacy there's this catchphrase
in the year 2020 that we're living in a
post-privacy society but the reality is
before the internet existed there was
the phone book
and the reality of the phone book is
that anyone who knows
your name can find out your address
and your telephone number that never was
treated
as private or concealed information it
never was treated as a crime
for someone to share your name your
phone number
or your address that has not been up to
this point
part of our cultural and legal tradition
and that may change
it may be that these things start to be
treated as secret or that there are new
laws that make it a crime to come on the
internet and say hey
i know who that is i know her name
because that's all it takes
right no matter how hard you may work to
conceal your name on the internet
all it takes is one of your cousins one
of your neighbors maybe the bank teller
to say oh yeah i recognize that girl i
recognize that guy
here's his name now that you have his
name you can find out his phone number
you can find out his address
that's the way it's always been we don't
live in this respect
in a post-privacy society we live in a
society that's actually
more interested in more sensitive to
these fundamental questions of privacy
than ever before
because of the internet and if you look
back at the lives of women who appeared
in pornography
in the 1970s or 1980s you're quite wrong
to think they lived in a world where
they could take for granted
that nobody knew their name that nobody
knew their address or that their friends
and family members were unaware
that they were appearing in pornography
they were able to conceal this part of
their lives
all right the internet has made these
sorts of things
faster it's made these sorts of things
cheaper
and with the advent of facial
recognition software
yes we have the final step whereby
basically
nobody no matter how hard they may try
can conceal their name can conceal their
address
or can conceal the connection between
the different profiles they have on the
internet
if for example you have a professional
name and then you have a
name you use for your modeling career on
the side those are going to be
connected by having your face in common
however most fundamentally we have to
recognize
that in even raising these questions of
privacy
we're raising something profoundly
irrelevant
to the ethical question at hand what we
are asking in effect is
what if you could have your cake and eat
it too
what if you could star in pornography
and make that money and have that fame
while remaining completely anonymous
while concealing it from
your friends and family your co-workers
while still having a career as a
psychologist or a lawyer or a school
teacher or a parent
what if you could have all of the
advantages
of appearing in pornography without the
disadvantages
and that is a fundamentally immoral and
irrelevant question
if we were talking about murder we're
not going to talk about the ethics
of getting away with it and it's very
obvious that in the 21st century
there is absolutely no way on the
internet you can get away
at least not with being a successful
porn star or a
successful nude model if we're talking
about whether it's right or wrong
to take revenge by killing someone we
have to recognize how irrelevant the
question is
of yeah but what if you could conceal it
what if nobody found out
what if you could get away with it
stereotypically
these questions are asked about women
not men and they're posed in a way that
presumes
that women don't have some other career
to sacrifice
whether that be a potential career in
the future
or an actual ongoing career here and now
these stereotypes are challenged by
examples like
professor nicholas goddard who in his
60s
with a phd with a distinguished career
as a university professor
started participating as a performer
in pornography and inevitably he dealt
with the consequences that his
co-workers
his friends his relatives and of course
his students at the university
did indeed discover that he had this
double life
why do i say that privacy is a separate
and irrelevant
issue it's because i see that it becomes
a dangerous distraction
in talking about the ethics and even the
pragmatic decisions we all have to make
as individual people
when we talk about pornography there's a
really important court precedent
from about one year ago involving a
company called
girlsdewporn.com what i see in the
mainstream press
reporting on it is that the journalists
sympathize with the perspective of the
young women who brought the complaint
in that they felt that they should be
able to appear in pornography they
should be able to
earn the money get the fame and acclaim
without the notoriety
that they should be able to have their
cake and eat it too that somehow
privacy should make it possible to
[Music]
be a psychology major who goes on to
become a psychologist
while simultaneously and secretly being
a porn star the young woman who started
the complaint that ultimately went to
court
she's listed as jane doe number one she
was the ringleader
reaching out to and organizing the other
young women 22 of them were dissatisfied
with their experience with this company
she was a law school student she was
planning on becoming a lawyer
and what do you know it's actually
impossible
to be a porn star to have all the
advantages
of being a porn star or a nude model
without having the disadvantages
also now this is not the only important
ethical issue
raised in this court case on the
contrary i'd be happy to do another
youtube video
talking about many other aspects of this
court case there are
a lot a lot of profound things to
reflect on there
but this is a dangerous distraction from
all of those profound and important
questions
because the question you're asking is
well yeah but what if you could get away
with it
what if you could have all the
advantages without the disadvantages
well what if we could kill osama bin
laden without starting a war that would
kill thousands or tens of thousands of
innocent people
what if we could conquer syria without
having to go billions of dollars into
debt
what if we could have war without the
negative consequences wouldn't it be
great then
what if the cia could acquire secret
information
without wiretapping anyone without
torturing anyone
the whole realm of ethical and political
debate
must concern and include those negative
consequences there's absolutely no point
in dealing with this
hypothetically as if you could have the
advantages without the disadvantages
and privacy has become precisely that
kind
of dangerous distraction from these
issues the video up to
this point has only entertained the
question of whether or not
sex work is good i think there
is a very different discourse we have to
engage in when we shift to the question
of whether or not
it is normal in the year 2020
the president united states is donald
trump
his current wife is a retired
model do you think you could go to
google right now
and find nude images of donald trump's
wife
how about his ex-wives how many of his
former wives
have nude images of themselves on the
internet
this has become normal good or bad
we have to as with the absence of
privacy face up to the profound
normalcy that this has taken on in our
lives and at all levels of our society
the problem is precisely that people in
the top
level of our society are able to indulge
in these things
without dealing with the consequences a
poor and powerless person who is
struggling to become
a psychiatrist or a medical doctor or a
lawyer or even just to get a job on a
construction site or as a mechanic
they may really be unable to deal with
the consequences
of having quite benign rumors about
their sex lives on the internet or
a minor uh sex scandal involving an
ex-boyfriend and some
unflattering posts on facebook or
youtube complaining about
something sorted in their personal past
a poor and powerless person
may be quite ill prepared to deal with
the consequences of the fact that maybe
in the year 2020
they briefly opened and only fans and
tried to find out how much money they
could or couldn't make
out of marketing nude images themselves
and we know that it's precisely people
like donald trump
donald trump and his wives who are able
to do these things
with impunity i'm interested profoundly
in equality under the law both ways
it may sound very strange to ask the
question of
can we or should we all live like donald
trump
but legally morally and ethically i
think those are precisely the questions
we have to move towards asking
we can't have a society in which there
is impunity
for some but not others either this is a
right to be exercised by all
or by none at all